h1. rah_runtime

Rah_runtime returns runtimes from point A to B in microseconds. The plugin can be used to diagnose runtimes of specific blocks of Textpattern's markup code.

h2. Basics

bc. <txp:rah_runtime format="1">
    ...contained statements...
</txp:rah_runtime>

The plugin introduces a new Textpattern tag, @<txp:rah_runtime />@. The tag calculates execution runtimes for Textpattern template markuThe runtimes can be printed to the page template and are added to a "tag trace":http://textpattern.net/wiki/index.php?title=Tag_trace.

The rah_runtime tag can be used both as a container and as a self-closing single tag. When the tag is used as a container, it calculates a runtime of the wrapped code. When used as a self-closing single tag, it calculates a runtime from the first tag instance to the second.

h2. Attributes

@<txp:rah_runtime/>@ tag's attributes are as follows.

*return*
If set to @1@, the tag outputs the runtime to the page template. If @0@ the runtime is only added and visible in the page's "tag trace":http://textpattern.net/wiki/index.php?title=Tag_trace when the site is in debugging mode. By default @return@ is @0@, and the runtimes are only added to the tag trace.
Example: @return="1"@ Default: @"0"@

*format*
Return formatted version of the time. When used, resulting value (float) is presented as a fixed decimal number. By default the option is used (@1@).
Example: @format="0"@ Default: @"1"@

*index*
With this attribute you can nest several tag pairs and count several independent runtimes. The @index@ attribute only applies when @<txp:rah_runtime />@ is used as a self-closing single tag.
Example: @index="articles"@ Default: @"default"@

*persistent*
If set to @1@, the runtime is kept alive after returning. Normally the runtime pair is destroyed after using it, but with @persistent@ the initial runtime is kept and still usable. The attribute is useful if you want to calculate multiple runtimes from same single starting point. The @persistent@ attribute only applies when @<txp:rah_runtime />@ is used as a self-closing single tag.
Example: @persistent="1"@ Default: @"0"@

h2. Examples

h3. Using as a container

As a container, @rah_runtime@ calculates a runtime for the wrapped content.

bc. <txp:rah_runtime>
    <txp:article_custom />
</txp:rah_runtime>

The above will return the contained statement's results, as it would normally without the rah_runtime, and the runtime of the contained statement is added to the page's "tag trace":http://textpattern.net/wiki/index.php?title=Tag_trace. The tag trace should display a line similar to this:

bc. [rah_runtime (default): 0.000010013580322]

h3. Using as a single tag

When the rah_runtime tag is used as a single, self-closing tag, the runtime is calculated from a @<txp:rah_runtime/>@ tag instance to the next. Essentially the runtime is for the markup and code between two @<txp:rah_runtime/>@ tags.

bc. <txp:rah_runtime />
    <!--
        Some code here, for example:
        <txp:article />
    -->
<txp:rah_runtime />

The above will return all the markup normally, like there weren't any traces of rah_runtime, and the runtime is added to the page's tag trace as a line similar to this:

bc. [rah_runtime (default): 0.000010013580322]

h3. Returning runtimes to the page

Normally the resulting runtimes are added to the "tag trace":http://textpattern.net/wiki/index.php?title=Tag_trace and are not visible in the normal page content. That is unless @return@ attribute is set to @1@.

bc. <txp:rah_runtime />
Runtime: <txp:rah_runtime return="1" />

The runtime is added to the tag trace and the above will return:

bc. Runtime: 0.00021401458032

h3. Using multiple nested tag pairs

The rah_runtime tag's @index@ attribute can be used to nest and mix multiple @<txp:rah_runtime/>@ tags and runtime pairs together. This will allow calculating simultaneous runtimes that overlap each others.

bc. <txp:rah_runtime index="2" />
<txp:rah_runtime index="1" />
Time1: <txp:rah_runtime index="1" return="1" />
Time2: <txp:rah_runtime index="2" return="1" />

The above will return two runtimes:

bc. Time1: 0.000081
Time2: 0.000184

The _time2_ contains the runtime of _time1_ and more.

h3. Using persistent runtimes

Persistent runtimes are useful when several runtimes are to be calculated from a same starting point.

bc.. <!--
    Starting the runtime timer
-->

<txp:rah_runtime persistent="1" return="1" />


<!--
    Some code here, for example <txp:article /> ...
    then output a (first) runtime
-->

<txp:rah_runtime persistent="1" return="1" />

<!--
    Some more code here, for example
    <txp:output_form form="myform" />

    Output runtime, calculated
    from the same original starting point
-->

<txp:rah_runtime persistent="1" return="1" />

<!--
    Even some more code.
    Finally, return the final runtime still calculated 
    from the same original starting point.
-->

<txp:rah_runtime return="1" />

p. Note that every one of the rah_runtime tags (except for the last) has @persistent@ attribute set to @1@. If the tag doesn't have it, then the runtime pair is destroyed after returning it. To finally destroy the runtime, set persistent to @"0"@ (zero) or leave it undefined.

h2. Changelog

h3. Version 0.5 - upcoming

* Updated: Help file.

h3. Version 0.4 - 2012/07/12

* Added: @return@ attribute.
* Added: Now the runtimes are added to the tag trace.
* Added: Container tag mode support.
* Changed: By default runtimes are only visible in a tag trace. Set @return@ attribute to @1@ (@return="1"@) output runtimes to the page template.
* Changed: Default @index@ to @default@. This is to avoid potential type juggling side-effects.

h3. Version 0.3 - 2011/08/19

* Added: a new attribute @persistent@. Disables destroying of used runtime pairs.
* Changed: Now stores the runtimes in a static variable instead of a global.

h3. Version 0.2 - 2010/06/18

* Fixed: now returns as float (compatible with pre-PHP5). "Thank you for reporting, Andreas":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?pid=230410#p230410.

h3. Version 0.1 - 2010/06/15

* Initial release.